# cs360
cs360 portfolio - Readme

### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
the main goal of this app was to make an android application that is able to record user weight. The app needs to be able to save a username and password combo into a database. The username and password combo are then used to log into the app. If the user does not exsist the user is able to create a new user. On the main screen the user is presented with a list of their most recent weights. The user needs to be able to add a daily weight and edit/delete previous weights. The user also needs to be notified when they reach their goal. The app will both send a notification and a text message to the user. there is also a settings app that is able to change the username and password, as well as the goal weight. The user is also able to see if they have given permissions for text messaging. I managed to achieve all of these goals and the app works as intended.
### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The app has three main screens. The first screen is the login screen that lets the user login or create a new user. The second screen displays a list of the most recent weights. This screen also lets the user add a new weight and delete/edit past weights. The third screen is a settings screen that is used to change the settings of the app. The user is able to change their username and password on this screen as well as change their goal weight. I made the screens simple and presented the user with the most important information in the center of the screen. I notified the user with toasts when certain events happened to keep the user informed. I think my designs were successful because they were simple and orginized in a way that makes sense to the user. The Android guide that I referenced helped me in this entire process.
### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I approached my code by first attempting to get the database working. I wanted to get the backend working before I could work on the frontend code. Once I got the backend working I started to work on the frontend. I coded the program to react to the user and add/remove/edit items in the database as needed. I iterated through the whole process and found myself going back to the backend and editing code as I coded the frontend and ui elements. I had to look up a lot in both the book,googling, and looking through Android documentation. I think all of these techniques are import to use. I also think that my approach of getting the underlying structure done first then working on stuff that relied on it is the best approach. I will continue to use the knowledge that I gained here in my future.
### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I tested it but using the app in both intentional and unintentional ways. I sometimes deleted all user information to make sure it reacted the same way to a new phonw as it did to my test one. I would examine code use toats to print information and also utilize the console to traceback any issues. All of these combined weere a huge help in testing. There was one time where I updated my code and everything worked, but when I deleted all user data I got an out of bounds exception. I never would have caught it if I didn't do it and I am glad I did. I fixed the issue and it also showed me how I was not properly deleting the first item in the list.
### Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The entire process was a huge learning opportunity for me, but I think the two most challengin aspect were the UI design and the database code. UI design is an entire beast all on it's own and there are entire fields dedicated to it. I found it hard to create something interesting yet functional. In the end I thought the old saying "keep it simple stupid" was the best approach here. I would like to sometime in the future dive into more complex UI. The database was very taxing. I had to look up a lot about SQL lite. I have some experience with databases, but I have never used SQL lite. I had to check and double check behind myself and I made a lot of errors along the way. I want to revisit this and more SQL in the future. I find it interesting, yet frustrating at times. This peaks my interest and I think you learn a lot in situations like this.
### In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I find it hard to be confident in my work at times. I wish my app was better, but at the same time I am proud of my acomplishment. This is the first android app I have ever made so it is not going to be perfect. It could be considered an alpha version even so there are bound to be issues, but I think the think I am most proud of is the flow of my app. I think the screens and the way the user navigates them works really well and is very intuitive. When I was testing my app it felt like many other apps I use on my phone and that is a good sign. Making the app flow and feel natural to an average user is important and I think I succeeded on that.
